$ rimsearcher get --help
exit 0
--- stdout ---
Usage: rimsearcher get [defName]... [options]

Show a def in full: its identity, its fields, and any translations of it. Several names, or --type on its own, print one such block each.

Field paths are the merged, post-patch shape the game actually had in memory when the snapshot was taken, so PatchOperations and inheritance are already applied. A def created in code rather than XML says so on its source line.

The 'source' line is the bare file name the game reported for that def — no directory, because the game does not keep one. It names the file inside that mod's Defs folder ('declared_in' above says which mod); it is not a path, and nothing here reads the file system to confirm the file is still there. Defs the game builds in code carry a placeholder there instead.

When present, the 'xml' column says whether this def's own XML wrote the path (here), only an ancestor did (parent), or neither of them did (not-written) — the fact PatchOperationReplace vs Add turns on. Index paths such as costList[0].thingDef are joined back to def-name tags such as costList.Steel from a sibling value on the same list entry, including two-level tags (things.AncientAmmoStack.chance), and using XML lines written by this def or by an ancestor. After that join, here/parent means the line is there, and not-written means the XML read here does not write it. The output says which XML it read.'read after every patch ran' is the merged XML after every PatchOperation ran, and a line another mod's patch put there reads as here+patch or parent+patch: Replace still finds that node, but your patch now depends on that mod staying loaded. 'read before patches ran' is the XML as written on disk, so there a patched-in node reads as not-written instead, and 'rimsearcher inherit <defName>' reports how many patch xpaths name this def. A further value, 'under <container>', means the XML wrote that container but this row still cannot be pinned to a line in it: the entry did not join, or it joined to a short-form tag such as <Steel>75</Steel> whose inline text matches none of the remaining fields, or more than one of them — or the snapshot did not record that text. Neither answer is available there. A snapshot without the column says so.

defName is not listed as a field: the def_name line above the table is that value, and the counts here leave it out. --path-contains naming it brings that row back; 'where' and 'values' see it as a path either way.

The translations table's 'origin' column says what became of each row. 'in effect' is what the game displays. 'in pack, not applied' is a record the language pack carries that the game did not inject: '(key on no slot)' when the key names no injectable slot of this def — usually a handle taken from a label the author has since changed; the row's 'path' is that key rewritten, so it lines up with nothing in the field table — or '(slot not translatable)' when the slot is real but the game marks it as not translatable. 'in pack' alone is a snapshot that predates the game's verdict. 'file (<mod>)' was read from that mod's language files on disk, ', not enabled' when the mod is installed but not enabled, so the game never read it, ', N files' when the same key sits in more than one of its files. The two slot suffixes attach to a file row the same way. Rows that carry no def type come from language files, whose keys are '<defName>.<field>'; the game injects those by name, so on a name shared by several defs they are listed under each.

Fields in one indexed block — a comps[N] or statBases[N] entry — bind and override each other, and a path filter shows only the one asked for; when the row shown is a hand-set value, the answer names the other hand-set fields of the same block.

A path that the value index has nothing under prints an index_gap row when the cause can be told. A value that is null on a def never enters the index, and neither does a field the game marks as an unsaved runtime cache, so a path missing on one def (null-on-this-def) is not a path missing from the type (null-on-type), and neither is a field the type never declares (undeclared). A name/value pair such as statBases[N].stat = MarketValue puts the field's own name in the value column, where a path filter cannot reach it (value-not-path); 'where --value' reads that column.

Arguments:
  <defName>  The exact def name. 'search' finds it if you only know part of it. Several names print one block each, in the order given; a name that matches nothing is reported in a note and the others still print. Leave the names out and give --type to print every def of that type. (optional)

Options:
  -n, --limit <n>             How many fields to return, at most. Left out, every one is returned. It counts fields inside each block; the number of blocks printed is set by the names you give, or by --type. Default: every one.
                              Also accepted: --max-results, --count, --top, --rows, --num, --head.
      --path-contains <text>  Only show field paths containing this text. Repeat it to widen the selection. The translation table is filtered by it too, on the path and on the key alike, with a list subscript tried in both spellings ('[0]' and '.0.'). '[]' stands for any index: 'comps[].props.energyMax' matches every comps[N].props.energyMax.
                              Also accepted: --filter, --grep, --values, --path.
      --exact-path <path>     Match this one field path end to end, so it takes a complete field path rather than a fragment of one. '[]' stands for any index: 'comps[].props.energyMax' matches every comps[N].props.energyMax.
                              Also accepted: --whole-path, --path-exact.
      --type <DefType>        Restrict results to one def type, for example ThingDef or HediffDef. Given with no def name at all, it selects every def of that type instead, one block each in def-name order.
                              Also accepted: --def-type, --kind.
      --defaults              Also list fields whose value is the one a fresh instance of the declaring type already carries. They are left out by default. The 'xml' column on those rows says whether this def's own XML wrote the path (here), only an ancestor did (parent), neither of them did (not-written), or that the row cannot be pinned to a line inside a container the XML did write (under <container>). The table says beside it which XML that was: 'read after every patch ran' or 'read before patches ran'. A yes with xml=here is an explicit write of the default. Without the xml column, a def whose XML writes that same value and a def that never mentions the field look the same. How many were left out is always printed, and --path-contains shows a named field either way.
                              Also accepted: --with-defaults.

Global options (every command takes these, written after the command):
      --snapshot <name>  Query this named snapshot instead of the one that would be picked automatically. An explicit choice always wins over auto-detection.
                         Also accepted: --snap, --env.
      --db <path>        Query the snapshot database at this path directly, bypassing the registry.
                         Also accepted: --database, --snapshot-path.
      --json             Emit machine-readable JSON. Anything the text output would have said in prose moves into a 'notes' array. The command's own table key is always present: an empty array when nothing matched. A note that reports a count also carries 'shown' and 'total' as numbers, so the figures never have to be parsed back out of its text; 'total' is null when only a lower bound is known, and both keys are absent on notes that are not counts.
      --quiet            Stdout prints only data blocks. Notices, including footnotes and the snapshot tag, are omitted from stdout; they are still written in full to the run log. A query that finds nothing then prints no stdout at all and exits 1; the absent and found_as tables are data blocks, so an exit 3 or 4 still prints its table. Leave this flag off to print the notices on stdout as well.
                         Also accepted: --data-only.
      --config <path>    Use this config file instead of the default one.

--json keys (besides 'notes'):
  defs           one object per def carrying the name — each with 'def' (identity), 'fields' (path/value/code_default rows, plus 'xml' when the snapshot recorded which XML lines were written) and 'translations'. Both inner tables are always there, empty array and all. 'defs' stays an array even for a single def, because a name can belong to several def types at once. With several names the objects come in the order the names were given, and with --type alone in def-name order; a name that matched nothing has no object here and one note in 'notes' that quotes it. With a path filter that matched nothing on that def, the object also carries 'index_gap' (asked, state, next) when the cause could be told — see the fields command for the states — and, when the filter emptied the translation table, 'empty_because' for that table.
  absent         one row per layer these defs would draw on that is short in this snapshot — layer, state, next; empty when every such layer is complete. Today that is 'economy' on a ThingDef when prices were not measured (state pre-measure / skipped / unavailable), 'disk_translations' when the import did not scan the language files on disk (skipped / unconfigured / unmeasured), and 'injection_keys' with --path-contains on a snapshot whose translation table has no 'key' column (pre-measure); next is the command that fills the layer.
  empty_because  one row per option given on this call that, alone, emptied the result: filter (the option as written), hidden (how many defs come back with just that option dropped), next (the same call without it, ready to paste). Empty when the result was not empty, or when no single option accounts for it.
  found_as       one row per name asked for that turns up as something other than what this command looks up: name, is (def / def outside --scope / xml node / abstract xml node / def type / class / interface text / mod in this snapshot / mod not in this snapshot / field value / def in another snapshot / xml node in another snapshot), in (where exactly), next (a command that reaches it, ready to paste). Empty when the name was found here, or turns up nowhere.

Examples:
  rimsearcher get Apparel_ShieldBelt
  rimsearcher get Apparel_ShieldBelt --path-contains statBases
  rimsearcher get Bullet_Revolver
  rimsearcher get Bullet_Revolver --defaults
  rimsearcher get Gun_Autopistol Gun_Revolver --type ThingDef
  rimsearcher get --type GeneDef --defaults --json
--- stderr ---
